.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug Report
about: Report a bug to help us improve Ludwig
title: '[BUG] '
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''

---

## 🐛 Bug Description
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

## 🔄 Steps to Reproduce
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

## ✅ Expected Behavior
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

## ❌ Actual Behavior
A clear and concise description of what actually happened.

## 📸 Screenshots
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

## 💻 Environment
**Platform** (check all that apply):
- [ ] Web Framework
- [ ] Desktop Framework  
- [ ] Embedded Framework
- [ ] CLI Tools

**System Information:**
- OS: [e.g. macOS 13.4, Windows 11, Ubuntu 22.04]
- Python Version: [e.g. 3.9.7]
- Ludwig Version: [e.g. 1.2.3]

**Hardware** (for embedded issues):
- Device: [e.g. Raspberry Pi 4, Arduino Uno]
- Sensors: [e.g. DS18B20, HC-SR04]

## 📝 Additional Context
Add any other context about the problem here.

## 🔧 Possible Solution
If you have ideas on how to fix this, please share them here.

## 📋 Checklist
- [ ] I have searched existing issues for this bug
- [ ] I have provided all requested information
- [ ] I have tested with the latest version of Ludwig
- [ ] I have included steps to reproduce the issue

Commit message:

Release v0.1.0: First official Ludwig release
🚀 Major Features:
- Multi-platform development framework (Web, Desktop, Embedded/IoT)
- Powerful Artisan CLI with code generation
- Comprehensive embedded systems support
- Community infrastructure (Code of Conduct, Security Policy)
- Production-ready authentication and validation
- Complete documentation and examples

✨ Key Highlights:
- 15+ project templates across all platforms
- Hardware abstraction for Arduino, ESP32, Raspberry Pi
- Modern web development with TailwindCSS and shadcn/ui
- Cross-platform desktop applications
- Smart home, robotics, and POS system generators

📚 Documentation:
- Getting Started guide
- Platform-specific development guides
- Contributing guidelines and community templates
- Security policy and vulnerability reporting

🛡️ Quality Assurance:
- Comprehensive test suite
- CI/CD pipeline with multi-platform testing
- Pre-commit hooks and code quality checks
- Static analysis and security scanning

This release establishes Ludwig as a robust, community-friendly development platform.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug Report
about: Report a bug to help us improve Ludwig
title: '[BUG] '
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''

---

## 🐛 Bug Description
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

## 🔄 Steps to Reproduce
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

## ✅ Expected Behavior
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

## ❌ Actual Behavior
A clear and concise description of what actually happened.

## 📸 Screenshots
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

## 💻 Environment
**Platform** (check all that apply):
- [ ] Web Framework
- [ ] Desktop Framework  
- [ ] Embedded Framework
- [ ] CLI Tools

**System Information:**
- OS: [e.g. macOS 13.4, Windows 11, Ubuntu 22.04]
- Python Version: [e.g. 3.9.7]
- Ludwig Version: [e.g. 1.2.3]

**Hardware** (for embedded issues):
- Device: [e.g. Raspberry Pi 4, Arduino Uno]
- Sensors: [e.g. DS18B20, HC-SR04]

## 📝 Additional Context
Add any other context about the problem here.

## 🔧 Possible Solution
If you have ideas on how to fix this, please share them here.

## 📋 Checklist
- [ ] I have read the [Code of Conduct](../../CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [ ] I have searched existing issues to avoid duplicates
- [ ] This is a bug report (not a feature request or question)
- [ ] I have provided all required information above
