.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, before:

---
name: Feature Request
about: Suggest an idea for Ludwig
title: '[FEATURE] '
labels: 'enhancement'
assignees: ''

---

## ✨ Feature Description
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

## 🎯 Problem Statement
Is your feature request related to a problem? Please describe.
A clear and concise description of what the problem is. Ex. I'm always frustrated when [...]

## 💡 Proposed Solution
Describe the solution you'd like
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

## 🔄 Alternative Solutions
Describe alternatives you've considered
A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

## 🌐 Platform Impact
**Which platforms would this affect?** (check all that apply):
- [ ] Web Framework
- [ ] Desktop Framework
- [ ] Embedded Framework
- [ ] CLI Tools
- [ ] Documentation
- [ ] Examples

## 📊 Use Cases
Describe specific use cases where this feature would be valuable:
1. Use case 1...
2. Use case 2...
3. Use case 3...

## 🔧 Implementation Ideas
If you have ideas about how this could be implemented, share them here:
- Technical approach
- API design considerations
- Breaking changes (if any)

## 📈 Priority
**How important is this feature to you?**
- [ ] Critical - Blocking my work
- [ ] High - Would significantly improve my workflow
- [ ] Medium - Nice to have
- [ ] Low - Minor improvement

## 🎯 Target Users
**Who would benefit from this feature?**
- [ ] Web developers
- [ ] Desktop developers
- [ ] Embedded/IoT developers
- [ ] Beginners
- [ ] Advanced users

## 📋 Acceptance Criteria
What would make this feature complete?
- [ ] Criterion 1
- [ ] Criterion 2
- [ ] Criterion 3

## 📝 Additional Context
Add any other context, screenshots, or examples about the feature request here.

## 📚 Related Issues
Link to any related issues or discussions:
- #issue_number
- Discussion link

## 📋 Checklist
- [ ] I have searched existing issues for this feature request
- [ ] I have provided a clear description of the feature
- [ ] I have explained the problem this feature would solve
- [ ] I have considered the impact on different platforms

Commit message:

Release v0.1.0: First official Ludwig release
🚀 Major Features:
- Multi-platform development framework (Web, Desktop, Embedded/IoT)
- Powerful Artisan CLI with code generation
- Comprehensive embedded systems support
- Community infrastructure (Code of Conduct, Security Policy)
- Production-ready authentication and validation
- Complete documentation and examples

✨ Key Highlights:
- 15+ project templates across all platforms
- Hardware abstraction for Arduino, ESP32, Raspberry Pi
- Modern web development with TailwindCSS and shadcn/ui
- Cross-platform desktop applications
- Smart home, robotics, and POS system generators

📚 Documentation:
- Getting Started guide
- Platform-specific development guides
- Contributing guidelines and community templates
- Security policy and vulnerability reporting

🛡️ Quality Assurance:
- Comprehensive test suite
- CI/CD pipeline with multi-platform testing
- Pre-commit hooks and code quality checks
- Static analysis and security scanning

This release establishes Ludwig as a robust, community-friendly development platform.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, after:

---
name: Feature Request
about: Suggest an idea for Ludwig
title: '[FEATURE] '
labels: 'enhancement'
assignees: ''

---

## ✨ Feature Description
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

## 🎯 Problem Statement
Is your feature request related to a problem? Please describe.
A clear and concise description of what the problem is. Ex. I'm always frustrated when [...]

## 💡 Proposed Solution
Describe the solution you'd like
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

## 🔄 Alternative Solutions
Describe alternatives you've considered
A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

## 🌐 Platform Impact
**Which platforms would this affect?** (check all that apply):
- [ ] Web Framework
- [ ] Desktop Framework
- [ ] Embedded Framework
- [ ] CLI Tools
- [ ] Documentation
- [ ] Examples

## 📊 Use Cases
Describe specific use cases where this feature would be valuable:
1. Use case 1...
2. Use case 2...
3. Use case 3...

## 🔧 Implementation Ideas
If you have ideas about how this could be implemented, share them here:
- Technical approach
- API design considerations
- Breaking changes (if any)

## 📈 Priority
**How important is this feature to you?**
- [ ] Critical - Blocking my work
- [ ] High - Would significantly improve my workflow
- [ ] Medium - Nice to have
- [ ] Low - Minor improvement

## 🎯 Target Users
**Who would benefit from this feature?**
- [ ] Web developers
- [ ] Desktop developers
- [ ] Embedded/IoT developers
- [ ] Beginners
- [ ] Advanced users

## 📋 Acceptance Criteria
What would make this feature complete?
- [ ] Criterion 1
- [ ] Criterion 2
- [ ] Criterion 3

## 📝 Additional Context
Add any other context, screenshots, or examples about the feature request here.

## 📚 Related Issues
Link to any related issues or discussions:
- #issue_number
- Discussion link

## 📋 Checklist
- [ ] I have read the [Code of Conduct](../../CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [ ] I have searched existing issues and discussions for similar requests
- [ ] This is a feature request (not a bug report or question)
- [ ] I have provided all required information above
- [ ] I understand this feature may take time to implement
